Historically, I'd always thought that the pinnacle of a startup journey was product
market fit. The idea that you could prove that you have something both that, you know,
meets the needs of a job to be done and some amount of people have in society, and that
those people are willing to give you a high degree of validation on the usage of it. And
generally, I would say that means paying money. That's probably not universally true in the
context of consumer and other things. And I used to believe that sort of if you could
get product market fit, the rest would sort of work out over time, right? You'd figure
out a way to scale your operations and your logistics and those kinds of things over time
and have a great business. And what I realize now is that that's not really true. Most just
says that do reach product market fit and reach that, you know, fairly material amounts
of scale, you know, into the tens and hundreds of millions of dollars you can make. Revenue
still don't clear what seems to be a more important hurdle, right, of being great businesses
that somehow generate cash in excess of their cost of capital and have some kind of sustaining
differentiating advantage. And so that, you know, thinking even of how difficult a company
like Slack found it to be at scale where they had, you know, product market fit in
the sense of, you know, a 10X better experience than maybe their closest competitor in Microsoft
Teams but were so structurally disadvantaged when it comes to distribution versus Microsoft
that they really weren't able to, you know, out-earn or outperform as a scale company.
And so, you know, their tombstone as an independent company was that effectively selling into
a more legitimate distribution engine for their business model. And so what does this
mean? It means that, well, you know, product market fit isn't everything, right? There's
a second stage of it. And, you know, is it clear who these businesses are that do go
on to outperform and become real, you know, cash sharing businesses at scale versus ones
that sort of, you know, still grow but maybe languish in terms of being, you know, truly
differentiated cash sharing machines? Is that knowable, you know, early on? Is that part
of the, you know, misreading of the business model or whatnot that sort of a random walk
of, you know, every 10 companies that sort of get to be on like an early product market
fit? Do they, you know, break out in the right kind of dream to be constrained by some
kinds of gravity? And so I think across all these dimensions, it raises all kinds of interesting
questions, right? And so it makes me think a little bit more about what product market
fit actually is. And so probably there's not one definition, right? I think most people
think about really having something that seems to make sense, seems to have a narrative go
to market story around it. And, you know, is easily digestible by the market is something
that solves a problem for them, right? Now, we stop the evidence of that was you're able to sell
that thing for more than what it costs you to make it. And so that's probably true as early
product market fit, right? That may exist as soon as, you know, in an enterprise software company
as soon as you sign your first deal, right? And somebody really puts a little bit of career risk
and some dollars on the line to use your product, it's pretty high signal validation of it being
useful. And there being more of those customers, right? And that signal grows as that, you know,
becomes five and 10, you know, in an ecom, it might be an early fail. But what it doesn't give
you any signal on how big that market, you know, actually is, or how efficient it's going to be to
grow. And so what I postulate is that there's a second phase of product market fit, where you as
a company, get your first wave of customers and you get your next wave of customers. And the
combination of both meeting a need and being able to explain how you meet that need to the market,
but that machine is so effective that you can go to market and achieve returns in some logical way
that are in a chest, right? That's cheaper to grow for you than somebody that has some measurable
degree of lack of product ownership. And that would feel intuitive to me as an idea.
And so how do you start to think about that, right? Is it a better product? Or is it, you know,
a better selection in other parts of your business model and business strategy that you have a
better insight on how distribution or pricing should work in this category and changed in a
way that allows you to grow, right? Have you just been more diligent on your internal engine that,
you know, is operating more efficiently and thus you just do acquire customers more cheaply because
you have a little bit less waste in the system, right? And you've invested more smartly in your
automation and things like that. Was it, you know, related to how big or how nascent that market is,
right? To have true like high efficiency growth product market fit generally implies like a
rapidly growing or rapidly emerging market that happens to be a lot of, but it's still quite
a greenfield, right? And it only later shows itself to be large, kind of unknowable. And so
these things are interesting, right? What, you know, what's the perfect definition of the first
product market fit? What's the right definition of this like kind of, you know, efficient growth
product market fit? What are the signals that this is going to be a sustaining outlook turner
long term that, you know, it's a business that kind of can break free of the forces of gravity.
How are we identifying that in advance? And when does the business have to design for that? Is that
on day one, you know, when you're ideating? You know, much later as you've kind of perved out
these different milestones on product market fit. And that's something I'm curious about.
