So in the context of start-up ideas, they're not all crazy people for a number of reasons.
And so it's hard to tell exactly what's going to work, right? If we have sort of ten, you
know, a hundred highly validated ideas, the lottery or the randomness of real life and
contact with the marketplace and whatever, we'll always have these surprising outcomes
in terms of what might work or what not. But at the start, I think there's some like really
interesting ones is you can put on, you know, an idea just on paper that gives you a little
bit higher probability chances succeeding later. So one of the things in my mind is
asking yourself, what's the problem I'm trying to solve? I mean, I think one of the big issues
is, you know, when you start ideating, it's really fun to jump to solutions, sort of like
ideas or technical technology ideas or anything of that type of technology you want to take
to market. You know, hey, I want to have an AI company, something like that. As opposed
to saying, you know what, like, there was this really specific problem that the burdens
of information security compliance on like small enterprises is huge and growing because
it's more and more important on topic and the quality of the tools isn't good enough,
but something like that, right? It's a problem space we can explore. And so, you know,
defining this problem is so important because it's very unlikely that your initial hypothesis
on a solution is useful or something that really is going to mature into a great product
or a business idea. And whereas, if you align around the problem space, it's very possible
for you to go out, understand that problem very deeply and sort of piece together, you
know, I hate to say have the market, you know, tell you what they need, but tell you where
the pain is, right, and use your magic to think about how you might be able to solve
it, right? So I think number one is, you know, the best startup ideas are problem-focused,
not solution-focused, right? Number two, you want to have an idea that is really worth
putting a lot of time in. I think there's a handful of things that you really want to
put a pretty strong checkbox around upfront, right, with very limited information in advance.
And so one of those is, hey, is this, you know, a problem that is valuable to a lot of people,
right? And I think there's two parts to that. One is, hey, is this like, you know, a problem
that people want solved, right? You know, it's the difference between things. There's all kinds
of stated preferences we have as consumers that we, you know, want healthier food or we're trying
to eat healthy, right, but we don't actually. So it kind of, there's a trap there where we feel
like it's a real startup problem and it isn't. I think the second thing is, if it is a real
problem, there's really enough people that care about it that it could ever be a real business.
And so this is something we kind of lie about to ourselves all the time as entrepreneurs or people
that are prosecuting different ideas. It's like, oh yeah, everybody would want this or, you know,
everybody would do this. And then the reality is, the answer is the market's probably quite
a bit smaller than you think, right? You start being very intellectually honest about, you know,
who this really appeals to or what a solution could, you know, who they could appeal to or
who you could distribute to or whatever it might be, right? So in lots of cases that,
you know, you're still bidding early, right? The market for this might not exist yet, but
you'd have to very rationally believe that when it comes to exist that it may be worth
the time and effort invested into this business. I think the second really important filter is,
so you have a problem, is it remotely possible to solve it? And so you might find yourself saying,
you know what, like the cost of energy is a problem. If we could actually create energy
abundance, it would do all kinds of things for different industries and the competitiveness of
Canada or North America or whatever in the world. And that'd be great, but like to what extent can
we, you know, are we positioned as like a founding team to actually, you know, solve that? And I mean
that specifically in like, you know, what about if it's like, well, cold fusion makes plenty of
sense or some, you know, patent on cold fusion at the university that I could license or something,
but like it's very difficult, right? The more tactical risk you take on, you know, generally
you can think of a business that's a product of either technical risk or go to market risk. And
in this case, you know, with that kind of business, you know, of course there would
be a market there if you get some kind of, you know, economic scale cold fusion going.
But that is, you know, you're trading the cost of that for a tremendous amount of like
product and technology risks, like your ability to actually see that.
And so the third thing is slightly different, but might feel like a related idea.
But you should, as a company or as a potential founder or founding team, be able to
have some kind of an answer to why are we, why would we be the people to prosecute this idea,
right? There are all kinds of things that are good ideas and would be good ideas and could surely
make money at scale, but either in the universe of, you know, entrepreneurs that might do it,
that have deep industry connections or experience or some kind of unique edge or insight into this
marketplace are going to be much more likely to succeed than you. But it also may just be
that structurally, you know, there's certain ideas that are better prosecuted by, you know,
a larger organization, right? Or that there's some kind of core resource that's going to be
very hard for you to replicate to take this idea. And it's kind of an easy check to do, right?
Because it's sort of more broadly the idea of founder market fit and that one of the
absolute most important indicators of success is an alignment, not only because you as a founder
need to have edge, but you would also need to have some emotional equity in the ideas,
but you could prosecute it even when things are inevitably
become a pretty miserable experience as part of doing so.
You might think of this as sort of being related to the customer thing, but I think one of the
other really good ones is being super honest with yourself about
how you would go to market with this specific idea is really important, right? And there are
all kinds of things that are a good idea. You could probably get the product market
fit in the sense of making something that people like and ultimately die on the vine of,
you know, fighting for awareness and distribution and customer acquisition to the point of maybe
having negative economics on everything sold or being unprofitable or just having trouble with
scale beyond a certain size. And so this is universally something that affects every business.
And we see it all the time, right? Ultimately, distribution is way more important than that.
Product quality in a lot of markets is something like Slack, which is
maybe a kind of spread, because Teams got dominated by Microsoft Teams because of the
unique advantages Microsoft had on distribution. And so that's something to consider. Open AI is
the same thing. They've given away a material amount of the equity upside in their business
to have this deep partnership with Microsoft solely to take this idea of distribution
risk off of the table for them. They said, hey, you know, Microsoft's the most important,
probably one of the best partners we could have in terms of their ability to, you know, sell this
technology through with, you know, in a high trust way on established vendor relationships with,
you know, every corporate and IT department and no market business in the world. In addition to that,
they have this very unique capability on the supply side. This partner takes some risk and
costs to the cost structure there. And so they've just tied themselves up. You know, in some sense,
that's pretty much, you know, operate as a division. Microsoft would be impossible for
them to fully merge, due to the regulatory regime, but it's, you know, a very interesting sort of
outcome. And so I think one of the other big ideas in choosing an idea or like what makes a good
startup idea is testability and sort of the signal richness of the type of business idea
are super important. So, you know, certain businesses, you know, think of an extreme,
something like, you know, developing a new therapeutic or pharmaceutical type product,
you know, are so slow, right? You have this, you know, multi-year kind of R&D effort. You kind of
have this multi-year regulatory effort and you have this, then you have your kind of, you know,
effort of commercializing, going to market, earning revenue. And so the business is very kind
of low amount of signal over time, right? It's kind of hard to tell if you're succeeding or not.
Whereas if you go down to the kind of small studio business, you can, you know, there might be
something, even if you just think of someone that maybe like buys widgets on, you know,
Alibaba.com and resells them as a brand new product on Amazon, it's so easy and quick to
get to market in the first place that you can gamify or experiment with this product
and really learn a lot, right? You learn what people like, you really can establish a sense
of your unit economics so much earlier. And so I don't mean this in the sense of, you know,
we want to get to these like micro ideas that aren't going to be really big businesses,
but different businesses that might be really big and really good ideas are harder or easier
to recombinate into the series of experiments that you need to do to gain traction and to validate
them further, right? And so if you're at the idea stage and you're just on the whiteboard
doing it, you know, selecting for businesses where you can kind of quickly, sincerely
envision how you might prosecute a series of simple experiments to get high, you know,
high signal very quickly about the demand for this product to get a really, you know,
continuous and strong feedback with about how to shape the product to the high proposition
and better meet the payments as clients. That idea at this stage is in some sense more valuable
and better than one that, you know, might require your work in product development before you really
get meaningful product and feedback from it. And so I think that's an important filter.
